planning/tasks/task-management.md, before:

---
title: "WitsV3 Task Management"
created: "2025-06-09"
last_updated: "2025-06-11"
status: "active"
---
# WitsV3 Task Management

## Table of Contents

- [✅ Completed Tasks](#✅-completed-tasks)
- [🔄 Active Tasks](#🔄-active-tasks)
- [📋 Backlog](#📋-backlog)
  - [Phase 1: Critical Fixes (June 12-15)](#phase-1-critical-fixes-june-12-15)
  - [Phase 2: Complete Neural Web (June 15-23)](#phase-2-complete-neural-web-june-15-23)
  - [Phase 3: Core Enhancements (June 20-26)](#phase-3-core-enhancements-june-20-26)
  - [Phase 4: New Features (June 26-July 9)](#phase-4-new-features-june-26-july-9)
- [💡 Future Ideas](#💡-future-ideas)

## ✅ Completed Tasks

- [x] Core architecture implementation (2025-01-01)
- [x] BaseAgent and agent hierarchy
- [x] LLM interface with Ollama support
- [x] Basic memory management with JSON backend
- [x] Tool registry with basic tools
- [x] Response parser with multiple formats
- [x] CLI interface in run.py
- [x] Configuration system with Pydantic
- [x] File operations tools (read, write, list)
- [x] DateTime tool implementation
- [x] **Adaptive LLM System implementation** (2025-05-31)

  - Implemented ComplexityAnalyzer for query routing
  - Created DynamicModuleLoader for specialized modules
  - Added SemanticCache for improved performance
  - Integrated AdaptiveLLMInterface with existing LLM system
  - Updated configuration with adaptive LLM settings

- [x] **Auto-restart on file change** (2025-05-31)

  - Implemented FileWatcher and AsyncFileWatcher classes
  - Added configuration option for auto-restart
  - Integrated with both CLI and GUI interfaces
  - Added watchdog dependency for file monitoring

- [x] **Background Agent Implementation** (2025-06-01)

  - Created background agent with scheduled tasks
  - Implemented memory maintenance and pruning
  - Added system monitoring and metrics collection
  - Set up semantic cache optimization
  - Added knowledge graph construction framework
  - Created comprehensive test suite
  - Added configuration management
  - Implemented logging and error handling

- [x] **MASSIVE BUG FIX & TEST STABILIZATION** (2025-06-08)

  - Fixed 25 failing tests across 8 categories (81% improvement)
  - Achieved 93.3% test pass rate (56/60 tests passing)
  - **Background Agent Tests (5/5)** - Fixed scheduler & task execution issues
  - **Config Tests (8/8)** - Resolved Pydantic validation & assignment issues
  - **JSON Tool Tests (7/7)** - Fixed async/await patterns & parameter handling
  - **Math Tool Tests (7/7)** - Corrected statistics calculations & error handling
  - **Python Execution Tool Tests (7/7)** - Fixed string formatting & assertions
  - **Supabase Backend Test (1/1)** - Implemented proper mocking & MemorySegment structure
  - **Adaptive LLM Test (1/1)** - Created missing model files & fixed streaming
  - **LLM Interface Factory Tests (3/3)** - Resolved import & isinstance issues
  - Enhanced async patterns across all tools and agents
  - Improved mock configurations for external services
  - Created dummy model files for adaptive LLM system
  - Codebase now production-ready with stable test suite

- [x] **Documentation Reorganization** (2025-06-09)
  - Created structured planning/ directory with subdirectories for different document types
  - Migrated 11+ markdown files from root to appropriate subdirectories
  - Created comprehensive file index and README files
  - Added proper metadata to all documents (title, creation date, last updated date)
  - Consolidated technical notes into a single comprehensive document
  - Created documentation maintenance tools (doc_maintenance.py)
  - Updated main README with improved documentation structure
  - Archived original files for reference
  - Added clear documentation guidelines and standards
  - Full documentation reorganization summary: [DOCUMENTATION_REORGANIZATION.md](../DOCUMENTATION_REORGANIZATION.md)

- [x] **File Structure Documentation** (2025-06-10)
  - Created FILE_STRUCTURE.md with comprehensive project organization
  - Documented package structure and relationships
  - Added file naming and organization conventions
  - Created root-level TASK.md file

- [x] **Implement MCP adapter** (2025-06-10)
  - Completed MCPAdapter implementation
  - Added MCP tool registration
  - Tested with filesystem MCP server

- [x] **Improve error handling** (2025-06-10)
  - Added retry logic for Ollama failures
  - Better error messages in CLI
  - Graceful degradation when services unavailable

- [x] **Memory Manager Enhancements** (2025-06-10)
  - Implemented FAISS CPU and GPU backends
  - Added memory export/import functionality
  - Implemented conversation summarization
  - Fixed memory pruning

- [x] **Neural Web Foundation** (2025-06-10)
  - Implemented Knowledge Graph base classes
  - Added Working Memory integration
  - Created integrated test suite for KnowledgeGraph, WorkingMemory, and NeuralWeb
  - Added cross-domain learning capabilities through concept activation propagation

- [x] **Cross-Domain Learning Implementation** (2025-06-11)
  - Created CrossDomainLearning module with domain classification
  - Implemented domain mapping and knowledge transfer
  - Added cross-domain activation propagation in Neural Web
  - Integrated with NeuralOrchestratorAgent
  - Created comprehensive test suite for cross-domain functionality
  - Added configuration options in NeuralWebSettings

## 🔄 Active Tasks

- [x] **Add comprehensive test suite** (2025-06-08) ✅ COMPLETED

  - [x] Create /tests directory structure (Done: Subdirectories agents, core, tools with **init**.py created - 2025-06-01)
  - [x] Add pytest configuration (Done: Created pytest.ini - 2025-06-01)
  - [x] Write tests for core components (Done: Fixed all core component tests - 2025-06-08)
  - [x] Mock Ollama interactions (Done: Comprehensive mocking implemented - 2025-06-08)
  - [x] Fix all failing tests (Done: 56/60 tests now passing - 2025-06-08)

- [ ] **Backlog Clearance Plan Implementation** (Started - 2025-06-11)
  - [x] Create phased implementation plan (2025-06-11)
  - [ ] Reorganize tasks by priority and dependencies
  - [ ] Implement Phase 1 tasks
  - [ ] Track progress and update task statuses

## 📋 Backlog

### Phase 1: Critical Fixes (June 12-15)

- [ ] **Fix memory pruning issue**
  - [ ] Implement automatic pruning in MemoryManager
  - [ ] Add configuration for pruning thresholds
  - [ ] Create memory size monitoring

- [ ] **Implement tool argument validation**
  - [ ] Add Pydantic validation for tool arguments
  - [ ] Implement pre-execution validation hooks
  - [ ] Add helpful error messages for invalid arguments

- [ ] **Enhance error context in streaming responses**
  - [ ] Improve error handling in StreamData
  - [ ] Add context information to error messages
  - [ ] Implement error tracing across components

- [ ] **Fix Gemma model crashes**
  - [ ] Implement robust error handling for model failures
  - [ ] Add automatic fallback to alternative models
  - [ ] Create comprehensive logging for model errors

### Phase 2: Complete Neural Web (June 15-23)

- [ ] **Neural Web Integrations** (In Progress - 2025-06-10)
  - [x] Implement cross-domain learning capabilities (2025-06-11)
  - [ ] Create visualization tools for knowledge networks
  - [ ] Add specialized NLP tools for concept extraction
  - [ ] Enhance reasoning patterns with domain-specific knowledge

- [ ] **Cross-Domain Learning Enhancement** (2025-06-11)
  - [ ] Implement domain-specific reasoning patterns
  - [ ] Add visualization tools for cross-domain connections
  - [ ] Create benchmarks for knowledge transfer effectiveness
  - [ ] Integrate with specialized agents for domain-specific tasks
  - [ ] Add semantic similarity improvements using contextual embeddings

### Phase 3: Core Enhancements (June 20-26)

- [ ] **Adaptive LLM Enhancements**
  - [ ] Create specialized module training pipeline
  - [ ] Implement advanced domain classification
  - [ ] Add user pattern learning
  - [ ] Optimize module switching for performance
  - [ ] Implement quantization for low-complexity queries

- [ ] **Adaptive LLM Testing** (2025-05-31)
  - [ ] Create test suite for ComplexityAnalyzer
  - [ ] Test module switching under different loads
  - [ ] Benchmark semantic cache performance
  - [ ] Validate routing accuracy across domains

- [ ] **CLI Enhancements**
  - [ ] Add rich/colorama for better formatting
  - [ ] Implement command history
  - [ ] Add session management commands
  - [ ] Add progress indicators

- [ ] **Directory Structure Improvements** (2025-06-10)
  - [ ] Consolidate similar file types in consistent locations
  - [ ] Add README.md to all major directories
  - [ ] Create standardized package exports in **init**.py files
  - [ ] Improve import pattern consistency across codebase

- [ ] **Documentation Enhancement** (2025-06-09)
  - [ ] Implement automatic document validation
  - [ ] Add API reference generation from docstrings
  - [ ] Create centralized glossary of terms
  - [ ] Add document versioning support
  - [ ] Implement interactive documentation with examples

- [ ] **Performance Optimizations**
  - [ ] Implement connection pooling for Ollama
  - [ ] Add caching layer for embeddings
  - [ ] Optimize memory search algorithms

### Phase 4: New Features (June 26-July 9)

- [ ] **Web UI Prototype**
  - [ ] Create FastAPI backend
  - [ ] Implement basic React frontend
  - [ ] Add WebSocket for streaming
  - [ ] Create API documentation

- [ ] **Langchain Integration**
  - [ ] Create Langchain bridge
  - [ ] Support Langchain tools
  - [ ] Document integration patterns

- [ ] **Background Agent Monitoring** (2025-06-01)
  - [ ] Add metrics visualization dashboard
  - [ ] Implement alert system for resource thresholds
  - [ ] Create performance reports
  - [ ] Add task execution history tracking

- [ ] **Additional Tools**
  - [ ] Web search tool
  - [ ] Python code execution tool
  - [ ] JSON manipulation tool
  - [ ] Math/statistics tool

## 💡 Future Ideas

- Voice interface integration
- Plugin system for custom agents
- Distributed agent execution
- Multi-user support
- Documentation automation with AI assistance

---

Last Updated: 2025-06-11 19:37

Commit message:

Add additional synthetic brain implementation files
This commit includes:
- Base versions of cognitive_architecture.py and memory_handler.py
- Updates to core configuration and memory management files
- Additional test files for the synthetic brain components
- Utility scripts for memory analysis and debugging
- Updated task management documentation

These files complement the previously committed synthetic brain implementation
and provide additional foundation for its functionality.

planning/tasks/task-management.md, after:

---
title: "WitsV3 Task Management"
created: "2025-06-09"
last_updated: "2025-06-11"
status: "active"
---
# WitsV3 Task Management

## Table of Contents

- [✅ Completed Tasks](#✅-completed-tasks)
- [🔄 Active Tasks](#🔄-active-tasks)
- [📋 Backlog](#📋-backlog)
  - [Phase 1: Critical Fixes (June 12-15)](#phase-1-critical-fixes-june-12-15)
  - [Phase 2: Complete Neural Web (June 15-23)](#phase-2-complete-neural-web-june-15-23)
  - [Phase 3: Core Enhancements (June 20-26)](#phase-3-core-enhancements-june-20-26)
  - [Phase 4: New Features (June 26-July 9)](#phase-4-new-features-june-26-july-9)
- [💡 Future Ideas](#💡-future-ideas)

## ✅ Completed Tasks

- [x] Core architecture implementation (2025-01-01)
- [x] BaseAgent and agent hierarchy
- [x] LLM interface with Ollama support
- [x] Basic memory management with JSON backend
- [x] Tool registry with basic tools
- [x] Response parser with multiple formats
- [x] CLI interface in run.py
- [x] Configuration system with Pydantic
- [x] File operations tools (read, write, list)
- [x] DateTime tool implementation
- [x] **Adaptive LLM System implementation** (2025-05-31)

  - Implemented ComplexityAnalyzer for query routing
  - Created DynamicModuleLoader for specialized modules
  - Added SemanticCache for improved performance
  - Integrated AdaptiveLLMInterface with existing LLM system
  - Updated configuration with adaptive LLM settings

- [x] **Auto-restart on file change** (2025-05-31)

  - Implemented FileWatcher and AsyncFileWatcher classes
  - Added configuration option for auto-restart
  - Integrated with both CLI and GUI interfaces
  - Added watchdog dependency for file monitoring

- [x] **Background Agent Implementation** (2025-06-01)

  - Created background agent with scheduled tasks
  - Implemented memory maintenance and pruning
  - Added system monitoring and metrics collection
  - Set up semantic cache optimization
  - Added knowledge graph construction framework
  - Created comprehensive test suite
  - Added configuration management
  - Implemented logging and error handling

- [x] **MASSIVE BUG FIX & TEST STABILIZATION** (2025-06-08)

  - Fixed 25 failing tests across 8 categories (81% improvement)
  - Achieved 93.3% test pass rate (56/60 tests passing)
  - **Background Agent Tests (5/5)** - Fixed scheduler & task execution issues
  - **Config Tests (8/8)** - Resolved Pydantic validation & assignment issues
  - **JSON Tool Tests (7/7)** - Fixed async/await patterns & parameter handling
  - **Math Tool Tests (7/7)** - Corrected statistics calculations & error handling
  - **Python Execution Tool Tests (7/7)** - Fixed string formatting & assertions
  - **Supabase Backend Test (1/1)** - Implemented proper mocking & MemorySegment structure
  - **Adaptive LLM Test (1/1)** - Created missing model files & fixed streaming
  - **LLM Interface Factory Tests (3/3)** - Resolved import & isinstance issues
  - Enhanced async patterns across all tools and agents
  - Improved mock configurations for external services
  - Created dummy model files for adaptive LLM system
  - Codebase now production-ready with stable test suite

- [x] **Documentation Reorganization** (2025-06-09)
  - Created structured planning/ directory with subdirectories for different document types
  - Migrated 11+ markdown files from root to appropriate subdirectories
  - Created comprehensive file index and README files
  - Added proper metadata to all documents (title, creation date, last updated date)
  - Consolidated technical notes into a single comprehensive document
  - Created documentation maintenance tools (doc_maintenance.py)
  - Updated main README with improved documentation structure
  - Archived original files for reference
  - Added clear documentation guidelines and standards
  - Full documentation reorganization summary: [DOCUMENTATION_REORGANIZATION.md](../DOCUMENTATION_REORGANIZATION.md)

- [x] **File Structure Documentation** (2025-06-10)
  - Created FILE_STRUCTURE.md with comprehensive project organization
  - Documented package structure and relationships
  - Added file naming and organization conventions
  - Created root-level TASK.md file

- [x] **Implement MCP adapter** (2025-06-10)
  - Completed MCPAdapter implementation
  - Added MCP tool registration
  - Tested with filesystem MCP server

- [x] **Improve error handling** (2025-06-10)
  - Added retry logic for Ollama failures
  - Better error messages in CLI
  - Graceful degradation when services unavailable

- [x] **Memory Manager Enhancements** (2025-06-10)
  - Implemented FAISS CPU and GPU backends
  - Added memory export/import functionality
  - Implemented conversation summarization
  - Fixed memory pruning

- [x] **Neural Web Foundation** (2025-06-10)
  - Implemented Knowledge Graph base classes
  - Added Working Memory integration
  - Created integrated test suite for KnowledgeGraph, WorkingMemory, and NeuralWeb
  - Added cross-domain learning capabilities through concept activation propagation

- [x] **Cross-Domain Learning Implementation** (2025-06-11)
  - Created CrossDomainLearning module with domain classification
  - Implemented domain mapping and knowledge transfer
  - Added cross-domain activation propagation in Neural Web
  - Integrated with NeuralOrchestratorAgent
  - Created comprehensive test suite for cross-domain functionality
  - Added configuration options in NeuralWebSettings

## 🔄 Active Tasks

- [x] **Add comprehensive test suite** (2025-06-08) ✅ COMPLETED

  - [x] Create /tests directory structure (Done: Subdirectories agents, core, tools with **init**.py created - 2025-06-01)
  - [x] Add pytest configuration (Done: Created pytest.ini - 2025-06-01)
  - [x] Write tests for core components (Done: Fixed all core component tests - 2025-06-08)
  - [x] Mock Ollama interactions (Done: Comprehensive mocking implemented - 2025-06-08)
  - [x] Fix all failing tests (Done: 56/60 tests now passing - 2025-06-08)

- [ ] **Backlog Clearance Plan Implementation** (Started - 2025-06-11)
  - [x] Create phased implementation plan (2025-06-11)
  - [ ] Reorganize tasks by priority and dependencies
  - [ ] Implement Phase 1 tasks
  - [ ] Track progress and update task statuses

## 📋 Backlog

### Phase 1: Critical Fixes (June 12-15)

- [ ] **Fix memory pruning issue**
  - [ ] Implement automatic pruning in MemoryManager
  - [ ] Add configuration for pruning thresholds
  - [ ] Create memory size monitoring

- [ ] **Implement tool argument validation**
  - [ ] Add Pydantic validation for tool arguments
  - [ ] Implement pre-execution validation hooks
  - [ ] Add helpful error messages for invalid arguments

- [ ] **Enhance error context in streaming responses**
  - [ ] Improve error handling in StreamData
  - [ ] Add context information to error messages
  - [ ] Implement error tracing across components

- [ ] **Fix Gemma model crashes**
  - [ ] Implement robust error handling for model failures
  - [ ] Add automatic fallback to alternative models
  - [ ] Create comprehensive logging for model errors

### Phase 2: Complete Neural Web (June 15-23)

- [ ] **Neural Web Integrations** (In Progress - 2025-06-10)
  - [x] Implement cross-domain learning capabilities (2025-06-11)
  - [ ] Create visualization tools for knowledge networks
  - [ ] Add specialized NLP tools for concept extraction
  - [ ] Enhance reasoning patterns with domain-specific knowledge

- [ ] **Cross-Domain Learning Enhancement** (2025-06-11)
  - [ ] Implement domain-specific reasoning patterns
  - [ ] Add visualization tools for cross-domain connections
  - [ ] Create benchmarks for knowledge transfer effectiveness
  - [ ] Integrate with specialized agents for domain-specific tasks
  - [ ] Add semantic similarity improvements using contextual embeddings

### Phase 3: Core Enhancements (June 20-26)

- [ ] **Adaptive LLM Enhancements**
  - [ ] Create specialized module training pipeline
  - [ ] Implement advanced domain classification
  - [ ] Add user pattern learning
  - [ ] Optimize module switching for performance
  - [ ] Implement quantization for low-complexity queries

- [ ] **Adaptive LLM Testing** (2025-05-31)
  - [ ] Create test suite for ComplexityAnalyzer
  - [ ] Test module switching under different loads
  - [ ] Benchmark semantic cache performance
  - [ ] Validate routing accuracy across domains

- [ ] **CLI Enhancements**
  - [ ] Add rich/colorama for better formatting
  - [ ] Implement command history
  - [ ] Add session management commands
  - [ ] Add progress indicators

- [ ] **Directory Structure Improvements** (2025-06-10)
  - [ ] Consolidate similar file types in consistent locations
  - [ ] Add README.md to all major directories
  - [ ] Create standardized package exports in **init**.py files
  - [ ] Improve import pattern consistency across codebase

- [ ] **Documentation Enhancement** (2025-06-09)
  - [ ] Implement automatic document validation
  - [ ] Add API reference generation from docstrings
  - [ ] Create centralized glossary of terms
  - [ ] Add document versioning support
  - [ ] Implement interactive documentation with examples

- [ ] **Performance Optimizations**
  - [ ] Implement connection pooling for Ollama
  - [ ] Add caching layer for embeddings
  - [ ] Optimize memory search algorithms

### Phase 4: New Features (June 26-July 9)

- [ ] **Dynamic Tool & MCP Server Discovery and Installation**
  - [ ] Implement dynamic discovery and registration of MCP servers/tools from npm, GitHub, and local directories
  - [ ] Implement web-based tool installation (auto-install from web, npm, GitHub, etc.)
  - [ ] Add tool versioning, dependency management, and conflict resolution logic
  - [ ] Add tool composition and workflow orchestration features
  - [ ] Implement security sandboxing and resource management for installed tools
  - [ ] Develop UI/CLI for discovering, installing, and managing tools from the web
  - [ ] Create documentation and usage examples for new tool discovery/installation features
  - [ ] Add comprehensive tests for dynamic tool/MCP server discovery and installation scenarios

- [ ] **Web UI Prototype**
  - [ ] Create FastAPI backend
  - [ ] Implement basic React frontend
  - [ ] Add WebSocket for streaming
  - [ ] Create API documentation

- [ ] **Langchain Integration**
  - [ ] Create Langchain bridge
  - [ ] Support Langchain tools
  - [ ] Document integration patterns

- [ ] **Background Agent Monitoring** (2025-06-01)
  - [ ] Add metrics visualization dashboard
  - [ ] Implement alert system for resource thresholds
  - [ ] Create performance reports
  - [ ] Add task execution history tracking

## 💡 Future Ideas

- Voice interface integration
- Plugin system for custom agents
- Distributed agent execution
- Multi-user support
- Documentation automation with AI assistance

---

Last Updated: 2025-06-11 19:37
